docs/cli.mdx, before:

---
title: CLI
description: Scaffold, develop, build, and deploy with the gittydocs CLI.
---

# CLI

The `gittydocs` CLI packages the docs app into a local workflow.

## Install

Use `npx` (no install):

```bash
npx gittydocs@latest --help
```

Or install globally:

```bash
npm i -g gittydocs
gittydocs --help
```

## Commands

### `gittydocs new <folder>`

Create a new docs folder scaffold:

```bash
gittydocs new my-docs
cd my-docs
gittydocs dev docs
```

For the fully customizable app (ejected):

```bash
gittydocs new my-docs --ejected
cd my-docs
bun install
bun run dev
```

### `gittydocs dev <GITTYDOCS_SOURCE>`

Run the local dev server:

```bash
gittydocs dev ./docs
```

If `./docs/.env` exists, it is loaded automatically (or use `--env`).

Hot reload is automatic for local sources. Edit `.md/.mdx`, `gittydocs.jsonc`, `theme.css`, or files in `[static]` and the browser refreshes.
For GitHub URLs, restart `gittydocs dev` to pull the latest content.

### `gittydocs build <GITTYDOCS_SOURCE>`

Build a static site:

```bash
gittydocs build ./docs
```

Output defaults to `dist/client` (override with `--out`).

### `gittydocs deploy`

Generate GitHub Actions workflow(s):

```bash
gittydocs deploy --ghpages
```

Commit the generated workflow(s) in `.github/workflows/`.

## Requirements

`gittydocs dev` and `gittydocs build` require `bun`.

Commit message:

feat: added runtime recaching so it clears the `dev` cache (apps/web) clone.

docs/cli.mdx, after:

---
title: CLI
description: Scaffold, develop, build, and deploy with the gittydocs CLI.
---

# CLI

The `gittydocs` CLI packages the docs app into a local workflow.

## Install

Use `npx` (no install):

```bash
npx gittydocs@latest --help
```

Or install globally:

```bash
npm i -g gittydocs
gittydocs --help
```

## Commands

### `gittydocs new <folder>`

Create a new docs folder scaffold:

```bash
gittydocs new my-docs
cd my-docs
gittydocs dev docs
```

For the fully customizable app (ejected):

```bash
gittydocs new my-docs --ejected
cd my-docs
bun install
bun run dev
```

### `gittydocs dev <GITTYDOCS_SOURCE>`

Run the local dev server:

```bash
gittydocs dev ./docs
```

If `./docs/.env` exists, it is loaded automatically (or use `--env`).

Hot reload is automatic for local sources. Edit `.md/.mdx`, `gittydocs.jsonc`, `theme.css`, or files in `[static]` and the browser refreshes.
For GitHub URLs, restart `gittydocs dev` to pull the latest content.

### `gittydocs build <GITTYDOCS_SOURCE>`

Build a static site:

```bash
gittydocs build ./docs
```

Output defaults to `dist/client` (override with `--out`).

### `gittydocs deploy`

Generate GitHub Actions workflow(s):

```bash
gittydocs deploy --ghpages
```

Commit the generated workflow(s) in `.github/workflows/`.

### `gittydocs recache`

Clear the cached web runtime used by `gittydocs dev/build`:

```bash
gittydocs recache
```

This removes the current version's cached runtime. The next `gittydocs dev/build` recreates it.
Use `--all` to clear every cached version.

## Requirements

`gittydocs dev` and `gittydocs build` require `bun`.
