docs/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration ⚙️
description: Everything you need to configure gittydocs from top-to-bottom (like a cheatsheet)
---

Create `gittydocs.jsonc` in your docs folder:

```jsonc
// docs/gittydocs.jsonc
{
  "site": {
    "name": "Site Name",
    "logo": "/logo.svg",
    "favicon": "/static/favicon.ico",
    "repo": {
      "owner": "username",
      "name": "repo",
      "ref": "main",
      "docsPath": "docs",
    },
  },
  "nav": [
    {
      "label": "Section",
      "items": [
        { "label": "Page", "path": "/" },
        { "label": "Subpage", "path": "/subpage" },
      ],
    },
  ],
  "links": {
    "github": "https://github.com/user/repo",
    "issues": "https://github.com/user/repo/issues",
  },
}
```

## Options

| Field                | Type    | Description                                          |
| -------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `site.name`          | string  | Site title                                           |
| `site.description`   | string  | Short site description used in `/llms.txt`           |
| `site.logo`          | string  | Logo image URL or public path                        |
| `site.favicon`       | string  | Favicon URL or public path                           |
| `site.repo.owner`    | string  | GitHub username or org                               |
| `site.repo.name`     | string  | Repository name                                      |
| `site.repo.ref`      | string  | Branch or tag (default: `main`)                      |
| `site.repo.docsPath` | string  | Path to docs folder                                  |
| `nav`                | array   | Custom navigation sections                           |
| `links.github`       | string  | URL to repository or org                             |
| `links.issues`       | string  | URL to issues page                                   |
| `theme.preset`       | string  | Preset theme name (see `/theming`)                   |
| `theme.cssFile`      | string  | Path to a CSS file in your docs folder               |
| `llms.enabled`       | boolean | Generate `/llms.txt` at build time (default: `true`) |
| `llms.path`          | string  | Folder for per-page LLM markdown (default: `llms`)   |

`site.logo` and `site.favicon` can be full URLs or paths to files in `public/`. Relative paths are resolved with the base URL.
For local assets in the default setup, drop files in `docs/[static]/` or `docs/[images]/` and reference them as `/static/...`.

For more theming details and presets, see `/theming`.

## Source

Set `GITTYDOCS_SOURCE` environment variable to point to your docs:

**GitHub URL** (auto-parsed):

```bash
GITTYDOCS_SOURCE=https://github.com/owner/repo/tree/main/docs
```

**Local path** (absolute):

```bash
GITTYDOCS_SOURCE=/absolute/path/to/docs
```

## Writing Content

Use `.md` or `.mdx` files. Frontmatter optional:

```mdx
---
title: Page Title
description: Description for SEO
---

# Heading

Content here.
```

Files sorted by:

1. `index.*` first
2. Numeric prefix (`01-intro.md`)
3. Alphabetical

## Fully Customize

Gittydocs is essentially a template repackaged as a CLI, thinly wrapped around [Velite](https://velite.js.org/), [SolidJS](https://solidjs.com), and [Vike](https://vike.dev). For full control:

```bash
bunx gittydocs@latest new docs --ejected
cd docs
bun install
```

Edit `velite.config.ts`, components, styles. Deploy the same way.

> When should I eject?
>
> - I need custom UI or layout changes beyond the config.
> - I need to change the content pipeline (custom MDX components or plugins).
> - I am okay maintaining a fork that can drift from upstream and get outdated.

Commit message:

docs: talk about routing in configuration.

docs/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration ⚙️
description: Everything you need to configure gittydocs from top-to-bottom (like a cheatsheet)
---

Create `gittydocs.jsonc` in your docs folder:

```jsonc
// docs/gittydocs.jsonc
{
  "site": {
    "name": "Site Name",
    "logo": "/logo.svg",
    "favicon": "/static/favicon.ico",
    "repo": {
      "owner": "username",
      "name": "repo",
      "ref": "main",
      "docsPath": "docs",
    },
  },
  "nav": [
    {
      "label": "Section",
      "items": [
        { "label": "Page", "path": "/" },
        { "label": "Subpage", "path": "/subpage" },
      ],
    },
  ],
  "links": {
    "github": "https://github.com/user/repo",
    "issues": "https://github.com/user/repo/issues",
  },
}
```

## Options

| Field                | Type    | Description                                          |
| -------------------- | ------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `site.name`          | string  | Site title                                           |
| `site.description`   | string  | Short site description used in `/llms.txt`           |
| `site.logo`          | string  | Logo image URL or public path                        |
| `site.favicon`       | string  | Favicon URL or public path                           |
| `site.repo.owner`    | string  | GitHub username or org                               |
| `site.repo.name`     | string  | Repository name                                      |
| `site.repo.ref`      | string  | Branch or tag (default: `main`)                      |
| `site.repo.docsPath` | string  | Path to docs folder                                  |
| `nav`                | array   | Custom navigation sections                           |
| `links.github`       | string  | URL to repository or org                             |
| `links.issues`       | string  | URL to issues page                                   |
| `theme.preset`       | string  | Preset theme name (see `/theming`)                   |
| `theme.cssFile`      | string  | Path to a CSS file in your docs folder               |
| `llms.enabled`       | boolean | Generate `/llms.txt` at build time (default: `true`) |
| `llms.path`          | string  | Folder for per-page LLM markdown (default: `llms`)   |

`site.logo` and `site.favicon` can be full URLs or paths to files in `public/`. Relative paths are resolved with the base URL.

## Static Assets / Images

Place images and other static assets in `docs/[static]/` or `docs/[images]/`. Both folders are special: their contents are copied to `public/static/` and served from `/static/...`.

```text
docs/
  [images]/
    hero.png
```

```md
![Hero](/static/hero.png)
```

For more theming details and presets, see `/theming`.

## Source

Set `GITTYDOCS_SOURCE` environment variable to point to your docs:

**GitHub URL** (auto-parsed):

```bash
GITTYDOCS_SOURCE=https://github.com/owner/repo/tree/main/docs
```

**Local path** (absolute):

```bash
GITTYDOCS_SOURCE=/absolute/path/to/docs
```

## Writing Content

Use `.md` or `.mdx` files. Frontmatter optional:

```mdx
---
title: Page Title
description: Description for SEO
---

# Heading

Content here.
```

Files sorted by:

1. `index.*` first
2. Numeric prefix (`01-intro.md`)
3. Alphabetical

Routing follows the folder structure:

```text
index.mdx            # /
subtopic/index.mdx   # /subtopic
subtopic/topic.mdx   # /subtopic/topic
```

## Fully Customize

Gittydocs is essentially a template repackaged as a CLI, thinly wrapped around [Velite](https://velite.js.org/), [SolidJS](https://solidjs.com), and [Vike](https://vike.dev). For full control:

```bash
bunx gittydocs@latest new docs --ejected
cd docs
bun install
```

Edit `velite.config.ts`, components, styles. Deploy the same way.

> When should I eject?
>
> - I need custom UI or layout changes beyond the config.
> - I need to change the content pipeline (custom MDX components or plugins).
> - I am okay maintaining a fork that can drift from upstream and get outdated.
