docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Turn a GitHub folder of Markdown/MDX into a fast, searchable docs site.
---

> [!WARNING]  
> This project is in alpha 🐺. I use it for my personal projects
> at the moment.

# gittydocs ✨

Simple, but ejectable modern docs for simple devs.

Write docs in Markdown. Push to GitHub. Get a beautiful docs site.

## Quick Start

Create a `docs` folder in your repo:

```bash
mkdir -p docs
```

Add `gittydocs.jsonc`:

```jsonc
// docs/gittydocs.jsonc
{
  "site": {
    "name": "My Project",
    "repo": {
      "owner": "yourusername",
      "name": "yourrepo",
      "ref": "main",
      "docsPath": "docs",
    },
  },
}
```

Add a page (i.e. `docs/index.mdx`):

```mdx
---
title: Welcome
---

# Welcome

Your content here.
```

Push to GitHub. Pick a deployment option:

- [GitHub Pages](/deploy/github-pages)
- [Vercel](/deploy/vercel)
- [Cloudflare Pages](/deploy/cloudflare)
- [Netlify](/deploy/netlify)

## Features

- **Quick & Easy** — One config file, push to GitHub, deploy anywhere
- **Full-Text Search** — `Ctrl+K` for instant search across all docs
- **Table of Contents** — Auto-generated with scroll spy showing current section
- **Copy Page** — Copy entire page as Markdown with one click
- **Dark Mode** — Built-in toggle
- **GitHub Integration** — "Edit this page" links
- **Fully Customizable** — Built on Velite + Vike + Solid. Eject anytime and own your stack
- **Static Export** — Deploy to any host

Commit message:

feat: repacked gittydocs as a cli.

docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Turn a GitHub folder of Markdown/MDX into a fast, searchable docs site.
---

> [!WARNING]  
> This project is in alpha 🐺. I use it for my personal projects
> at the moment.

# gittydocs ✨

Simple, but ejectable modern docs for simple devs.

Write docs in Markdown. Push to GitHub. Get a beautiful docs site.

## Quick Start

Scaffold with the CLI:

```bash
npx gittydocs@latest new my-docs
cd my-docs
npx gittydocs@latest dev docs
```

Or do it manually.

Create a `docs` folder in your repo:

```bash
mkdir -p docs
```

Add `gittydocs.jsonc`:

```jsonc
// docs/gittydocs.jsonc
{
  "site": {
    "name": "My Project",
    "repo": {
      "owner": "yourusername",
      "name": "yourrepo",
      "ref": "main",
      "docsPath": "docs",
    },
  },
}
```

Add a page (i.e. `docs/index.mdx`):

```mdx
---
title: Welcome
---

# Welcome

Your content here.
```

Push to GitHub. Pick a deployment option:

- [GitHub Pages](/deploy/github-pages)
- [Vercel](/deploy/vercel)
- [Cloudflare Pages](/deploy/cloudflare)
- [Netlify](/deploy/netlify)

## Features

- **Quick & Easy** — One config file, push to GitHub, deploy anywhere
- **Full-Text Search** — `Ctrl+K` for instant search across all docs
- **Table of Contents** — Auto-generated with scroll spy showing current section
- **Copy Page** — Copy entire page as Markdown with one click
- **Dark Mode** — Built-in toggle
- **GitHub Integration** — "Edit this page" links
- **Fully Customizable** — Built on Velite + Vike + Solid. Eject anytime and own your stack
- **Static Export** — Deploy to any host
